# SharedApartmentSimulatorProgram
A simulator about the daily living in a shared apartment with 11 people.

Content: 1: Explanation, 2: How to use, 3: important to know


1: Explanation: The main functionality of the program is the random simulator of the 11 co-residents’ decisions. They can either leave/enter the house or enter/leave one of the three bathrooms in the house. As the rooms of the residents are located in different places of the 2 floor-apartment, they have individual preferences to which bathroom they prefere, as the bathrooms are located in different places in the house (one on top floor and 2 on the lower floor). When the simulator is started, every resident starts as an own thread. Every 2 seconds, every resident gets a random number, which decides the action that he wants to perform right now (nothing, leave house, enter house, leave bathroom 1 etc...). After the action that is wanted in this 'round' has been decided, the program checks whether this action is possible to perform right now. For example if the action is ‘leave house’ but the resident is already outside of the house, this action is not possible to perform so nothing happens for this resident in this ‘round’. If the action is to enter a bathroom, for example the big bathroom, but this bathroom is already occupied, the resident will perform the action to enter another bathroom, and only if all three of the bathrooms are already occupied, nothing will happen for the resident in this ‘round’. 
Then after two seconds, another random number is delivered to the residents’ thread and all the checks are done again, and if everything alright, the action will be performed.

In the main Window (the window that opens when the program is started), there is also a little function called the LiveLine. It is a space with multiple diagonal lines, that can move horizontally. Its color or colors can also be changed. 

2: How to run/use: You should always run the main.py class in order to run this program, like this you will get to the main window first. Theoretically it is possible to run the different classes like Residents.py or Total.py as well, by this you will only run this certain window. 
If started correctly, you will get to the main Window. In there are 3 big buttons, Residents, Total and Start. The Start button has no functionality so far. The Residents button will get you to the Residents Window. There you can start the simulator by clicking on Start. By clicking on Stop you can always stop the simulator, and then also restart it again if wished. In The Residents Window you have detailed information about the individual residents, who is at home and who not, and who is in which bathroom. If go to the Total Window via the main Window, you can start and stop the simulator the same way as in the Residents Window, but in the Total Window you only get a general overview about the house, with a number of residents currently at home, and which bathrooms are available or occupied, but no detailed information about the residents. 

On the bottom of the main Window you find the LiveLine. By clicking on start, it will start to move horizontally. It is possible to stop the movement via the stop button. On the right you find a dropbox with various colors to choose, if chosen a color, you have to click on ‘go’ to commit these changes to the LiveLine and change its color. This works while the LiveLine is moving and while it is stopped. The last color (purple-white) is a mixture of these two colors, and also changes the colors vertically. The LiveLine can also run while the simulator is running, as it works in a separate thread. 

3: important to know:
I wrote the majority of this code in Portuguese and had to translate everything to English afterwards, so there might appear some words that are still in Portuguese and not translated to english yet. 
Every Method or class is explained with a short comment in the line before, Some redundant explanations are only added one time, so if there is no explanation to a function or class, I should have mentioned in a comment that this line or something similar has already been explained in another line or maybe another class. 
